
When Qn=0 and Qn+1=0 in the characteristic table in the first 2 rows we have them both 0 . The value for J is always 0
so I can write J as 0 but the values of K are 0 1 so it is down here because the value is only dependent upon J whatevere be the value of K 
it is not going to change so K is the dont't care. 








----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

n D flip-flop you already know that there is a single input that is d we call it the data input and has two possible combinations 
but in SR flip-flop I have made the truth table for SR flip-flop because we will use it for your JK flip-flop and in this ypo can see 
there are two inputs has four possible combinations when your clock is high so ot is always good to have four combinations compared
to two combinations but there is one disadvantage in this the last combination when s is 1 and r is 1 is a not used state so we don't
use it ok there is a contradiction that you have already seen in the sr flip-flop so in this whole presentation what we will try to do
we will try to make a a flip-flop in which this one state is used there is some usable form when wea are having s as 1 and r as one and
the flip-flop obtained is called as the jk flip-flop so I hope it is now clear that why we have to study the kj flip-flop now let us 
move to this circuit for the jk flip-flop this is the circuit for sr flip-flop and we will try tomake a jk only from this circuit.
Let's see what changes we have to do to get a jk flip-flop. There are 2 outputs to this, Q and Q complement. I will take Q from here and
I will give this Q as one of the input to our NAND gate the NAND gate in which r is one of the input, similarly I will take Q 
complement out and give it to the NAND gate in which s is acting as one of the input. So this is our jk flip-flop now I will write
s as j and r as k. The next thing is the working of this flip-flop so the first case is when clock is lolw and you already know in
this .. (explicatie tabel).

So I can write it like Q is 0 1 0 1 and so on Q complement is 1 0 1 0 so on it is racing and a very important because wea are going 
to use it directly in our counters. We can see that when Q was 0 it will become 1  and when it is 1 it will become 0 so
if I say Q n +1 that is the output if it is 0 it will become now 1 and again 0 and so on. So it is acvtually the complement of the previous 
state so whatever b e the value for the Qn we are having output as Q' so this not used state is now Q' .
Everything is same like sr flip-flop but only the last combination in which we are having output as Q' that is our toggle.


By toggle I mean that the output Qn+1 quickly changes from 0to 1 and again 0 then 1 this is called as toggling.
Now by using this truth table I have to find out the characteristic and the excitation table for the jk flip-flop.
In this characteristic table I am having single output that is my next state so what is the next state Qn+1 is the next state.
This is stored in the flip flop and this next state is dependent upon the present input. My present input is J and K and it is also
dependent on the previous state which is Qn. So it is clear that I am having three inputs, which are Qn J K and depending upon
this three inputs I'm having a single output that is On+1(the next state).

 Because of this three variables O'm having 8 combinations.
Now let;s use this truth table to find out the values of Qn+1 for different values of Qn K and K. 
So when J k both are 0 it is he Qn so whatever the previous value we are having the Qn+1 it's going to be the same. Qn is 0 so 
Qn+1is also 0.



After the characteristic table we are going to have the excitation table  and this table is deduced by the help of characteristic table 
In this table we arfe having the 2 input Qn and Qn+1 which represent the state and the next state and 2 output which are the
inputs to the flip flop j and k. We are having 4 possible combinations for the inputs.










